now that you know how to load and save
data and alter put your data into
matrices and so on in this video I'd
like to show you how to do computational
operations on data and later on we'll be
using these sorts of computational
operations to implement our learning
algorithms let's get started here's my
octave window let me just quickly
initialize some variables to use for our
examples and set a to be a three by two
matrix and set B to a three by two
matrix and let's set C to a two by two
matrix like so now let's say I want to
multiply two of my matrices so let's say
I want to compute a times C I just type
a times C so it's a three by two matrix
times the 2 by 2 matrix this gives me
this 3 by 2 matrix you can also do
element wise operations into a dot times
B and what this will do is though taking
elements of a and multiply it by the
corresponding elements of B so that's a
does B that's a dot times B so for
example the first out first element is 1
times 11 which gives 11
the second element gives 2 times 12
which gives 24 and so on so this is the
element wise multiplication of two
matrices and in general the period tends
to is usually used to denote element
wise operations in octave so here is a
matrix a and if I do a not to carat 2
this gives me the multiplier element
wise squaring of a so you know 1 squared
is 1 2 squared is 4 and so on
let's set V to a vectors must and B is 1
2 3 is a column vector you can also do
one dot over B to do the element wise
reciprocal of V so this gives me 1 over
1 1 over 2 and 1 over 3 this were a
super matrices of 1 dot over a gives me
that element wise your inverse of a and
once again the period here gives us a
clue that this is an element wise
creation can also do things like log v
this is a element-wise logarithm of the
element of the the b e to the B is you
know base e exponentiation of these
elements so this is e this is e squared
EQ because this was B to this and I can
also do ABS V to take the element wise
absolute value of V so here you know V
was all positive related apps say minus
one two minus three the element wise
absolute value just me back these are
non negative values and negative V gives
me the minus of V this is the same as
negative 1 times V but usually just
write negative B instead of negative 1
times V and what else can you do here's
another neat trick so let's see let's
say I want to take V and increment each
of its elements by one well one way to
do it is by constructing a 3 by 1 vector
there's all one's and adding that to V
so if I do that this increments V by
from 1 2 3 2 2 3 4 there I did that was
length of V is 3 so once length of V by
1 this is let 1 of 3 by 1 so that's 1 3
by 1 all right and what I did was B plus
1 3 by 1 which is adding this vector of
all ones to be until this increments V
by one and you another simpler way to do
that sheets type B plus 1 right so yes V
and V plus 1 also means to add one
element wise to each of my elements of V
now let's talk about more operations so
here's my matrix a if you want to write
a transpose the way to do that is to
write a prime that's be a prosody symbol
is the left quote so and then on your
keyboard you probably have a left quote
and a right quote so this is a decision
of the standard quotation mark ISM I'll
just type a transpose this gives me the
you know transpose of my matrix
and of course a transpose if I transpose
that again then I should get back my
matrix 8 some more useful functions
let's say lowercase a is 1 15 to 0.5 so
it's a you know 1 by 4 matrix let's I
said thou equals max of a this returns
the maximum value of a which in this
case is 15 and I can do thou IND max a
and this returns now an end which are
going to be the maximum value of a which
is 15 as was the index o is the element
number 2 of a that was 15 so in since my
index into this just as a warning if you
do max a where a is a matrix what this
does is this does actually does the
column wise maximum but say a little bit
more about this in a second so using
this example the variable lowercase a if
I do a less than 3 this does the element
wise operation element wise comparison
so the first element of a is less than
three so this one second element of a is
not less than three so this values is
zero because it's false the third and
fourth elements of a are I'm in less
than three third and fourth elements are
less than three so this is one one so
this does the element wise comparison of
all four elements of the variable lower
case eight to three and it returns true
or false depending on whether or not is
less than three now if I do find a less
than three this will tell me which are
the elements of a the Devere for eight
or less than three and in this case the
first third and fourth elements are less
than three for my next example let me
set a to be equal to Magic three the
magic function returns on type help
magic the magic function returns
functions called magics the turns these
matrices called magic squares they have
this um you know mathematical property
that all of their rows and columns and
diagonals sum up to the same thing so
you know
it's not actually useful for machine
learning as far as I know but I'm just
using this as a convenient way you know
to generate a three by three matrix and
and this magic square screen right have
the property that each row each column
and the diagonals all add up to the same
thing so it's kind of a mathematical
construct I use magic I use this magic
function only when I'm doing demos or
when I'm teaching octave like this and I
don't actually use it for any you know
useful machine learning application but
let's see if I type RC equals find a
greater than or equals seven this finds
all the elements of a did I greater than
equal to seven and so RC sensor row and
column so the one one element is greater
than 7 the three two elements is greater
than 7 and a two three element is
greater than 7 so let's see the to three
element for example is a two three is
seven is this element out here and that
is indeed created equal seven by the way
I actually don't even memorize myself
what these fine functions do and what
all of these things to myself and
whenever I use the find function
sometimes I forget myself exactly what
it does and you know I type HopeLine to
look up the document okay just two more
things will quickly show you one is the
sum function so here's my a and then
type sum a this adds up all the elements
of a and if I multiply them together I
type prod a process or product and this
returns the product of these four
elements of a floor a rounds down these
elements of eight so zero point five
gets rounded down to zero and Cu or
ceiling a gets rounded up so zero point
five rounded up to the nearest integer
so zero point five gets rounded up to
one
you can also let's see you let me type
ran three the generator three by three
matrix if I type max ran three R and V
what this does is it takes the element
wise maximum of two random three by
three matrices so you know that all
these numbers tend to be a bit on the
large side because each of these is
actually the max
a randomly of element-wise mass of two
randomly generated matrices this is a
this is my magic number
this was my a magic square 3x3 a let's
say I type max a and then this weird
open close square bracket comma 1 what
this does is this takes the column wise
maximum so the max of the first column
is 8 max a 7 second column is 9 the max
in the third column is 7 this one means
to take the max along the first
dimension of a in contrast if I were to
type max a this funny notation to then
this takes the per row maximum so the
max to the first row is 8 men so second
row is 7 max of the third row is 9 and
so this allows you to take max is either
you know per row or per column and if
you want to and remember the default to
a column art wise elements you won't
find if you want to find the maximum
element in the entire matrix a you can
type max max of a like so which is 9 or
you can turn a into vector and type max
of a colon like so and this treats this
as a vector and takes the max of max
element of that vector finally let's set
a to be a 9 by 9 Magic Square so
remember the Magic Square has this
property that every column in every row
sums the same thing and also the
diagonals so here's a 9 by 9 matrix
square so let me do some a1 so this does
a per column sum so I'm going to take a
column of a and add them up and this you
know lessons verify that indeed for a 9
by 9 matrix square every column adds up
to 3 6 9 s of the same thing now let's
do the row wise some so there's some a
calmer of 2 and this sums up each row of
a and indeed each row of a also sums up
to 3 6 9
now let's sum the diagonal elements of a
and make sure the day that that also
sums up to the same thing so what I'm
going to do is construct a 9 by 9
identity matrix that's a 9
and we're going to take a and construct
your multiply a element-wise so here's
my matrix a going to 8 times i9 and what
this will do is take the element wise
product of these two matrices and so
this should wipe out everything in a
except for the diagonal entries and now
I'm going to do some sum of a of that
and this gives me the sum of this these
diagonal elements and indeed it is 3 6 9
you can sum up the other diagonal as
well so instead of top left to bottom
right you can sum of the opposite
diagonal from bottom left to top right
the sum of the commands for this is a
somewhat more cryptic you don't really
need to know this I'm just showing you
this in case any of you are curious but
um let's see flip you flip you these
tends to flip up down but if you do that
that turns out to sum up the elements
and the opposites at the other diagram
of a and then also sums up to 3 6 9 here
let me show you where as I 9 is this
matrix flip up/down of I 9 you know
takes the identity matrix and flips it
vertically so you end up with excuse me
WD end up with ones on this opposite
diagonal as well just one last command
and they're not that's it and then I'll
that'll be it for this video let's say a
to be the magic 3x3 magic square game if
you want to invert a matrix you type P
in a just technically called the
pseudo-inverse but it does matter just
think it is basically the inverse of a
and that's the inverse of a and so I can
set you know 10 equals P in of a and if
I take 10 times a this is indeed the
identity matrix with essentially ones on
the diagonals and zeros on the off
diagonals up to a numerical roundoff
so that's it for how to do different
computational operations on the data and
matrices and after running a learning
algorithm often one of the most useful
things is to be able to look at your
results or to plot or visualize your
result and in the next video I'm going
to very quickly show you how again with
one or two lines of code using octave
you can quickly visualize your data or
plot your data and use that to better
understand what your learning algorithms
are doing